Add Numbers concept (#711)
exercism/kotlin: concepts/numbers/about.md

# About Numbers

## Numerical types

[Numbers][numbers] can be integer, unsigned integer, or floating point types.
Each comes in various "sizes", meaning how many bits it needs in memory.

- Integers can be `Byte`, `Short`, `Int` or `Long`, respectively 8, 16, 32 and 64 bits.
- Unsigned integers have a `U` prefix: `UByte`, `UShort`, `UInt` or `ULong`.
- Floating point types are `Float` (32-bit) or `Double` (64-bit).

Integer variables relying on type inference default to `Int`, even on 64-bit machines, but floating point variables default to `Double`.

> Other types can, of course, be specified, but there are a few syntactic shortcuts, and big integer literals become `Long` if they would overflow `Int`.

Author: I've added a paragraph - is this what you wanted?

> Other types can, of course, be specified, but there are a few syntactic shortcuts, and big integer literals become `Long` if they would overflow `Int`.

Reviewer: It's better, but assume someone doesn't know what "number can be x bytes" means. I am a strong opponent to "just" explain this, especially in `about.md`, but also in `introduction.md` if it's relevant. We could add above line 16 something like:

```
In Kotlin, like many strongly types languages, numbers take a fixed amount of space in memory, which also means for each numeric type there is a smallest and largest value that fits. This is generally expressed in bits or bytes.

For numeric types that can go below and above zero, one bit is reserved to indicate the *sign*. This effectively cuts the amount of integers that fits in the memory in half, and these are called signed integers. In contrast, there are also unsigned integers which do not reserve a bit for the sign, doubling the maximum value the memory for that number can hold.
```

You may want to reword in your own words.

Sidenote: if you feel my or `kahgoh`'s contributions are significant, feel free to add us to the contributors array when you see fit.

```kotlin
Int.MAX_VALUE  // => 2147483647 (maximum for a 32-bit signed integer)
Int.MAX_VALUE + 1  // -2147483648 (overflow gives a negative result!)
```

- Integers can be `Byte`, `Short`, `Int` or `Long`, respectively 8, 16, 32 and 64 bits (1, 2 4, 8 bytes), and can be positive or negative.
- Unsigned integers have a `U` prefix: `UByte`, `UShort`, `UInt` or `ULong`, and can only represent numbers ≥ 0.
- Floating point types are `Float` (32-bit) or `Double` (64-bit).

Integer variables relying on type inference default to `Int`, even on 64-bit machines, but floating point variables default to `Double`.

Other types can, of course, be specified, but there are a few syntactic shortcuts, and big integer literals become `Long` if they would overflow `Int`.

```Kotlin
val one = 1 // defaults to Int
val threeBillion = 3_000_000_000 // Long, with optional underscores for clarity
val oneLong = 1L // Long
val oneByte: Byte = 1
val oneDouble = 1.0 // defaults to Double
val oneFloat = 1.0f // Float
val lightSpeed = 3.0e8 // scientific notation (units of m/s)
```

> Hexadecimal and binary literals are the same as in many languages: `0x7F` and `0b100101` respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hexadecimal literals start with `0x`, e.g. `0x7F`, and binary literals start with `0b`, e.g. `0b100101`.
```

Octal literals are not supported in Kotlin.

> 

Reviewer: Maybe also add the Kotlin does not support arbitrary precision arithmetic in its standard library, so a userland solution is necessary for `BigInteger` and `BigDecimal` support?

## Arithmetic

The basic arithmetic operators are the same as in many languages:

```Kotlin
4 + 3 // => 7
4 - 3 // => 1
4 * 3 // => 12

> 4 / 3 // => 1  Int / Int always gives an Int
> -8 / 3 // => -2  Truncated towards zero
> -8.0 / 3 // => -2.6666666666666665

Reviewer: ````suggestion
12 / 4 => 3
```

When dividing an integer (for example an Int) by another integer (for example an Int), the result will also be an integer (in this case an Int):

```kotlin
4 / 3 // => 1  Int / Int always gives an Int
-8 / 3 // => -2  Truncated towards zero
```

> The basic arithmetic operators are the same as in many languages:
> 
> ```Kotlin
> 4 + 3 // => 7
> 4 - 3 // => 1
> 4 * 3 // => 12
> 4 / 3 // => 1  Int / Int always gives an Int
> -8 / 3 // => -2  Truncated towards zero
> -8.0 / 3 // => -2.6666666666666665
> ```
> 
> To get a floating point result, at least one of the numbers in the calculation must be floating point.
> This is particularly significant for division, as integer division often leads to truncation.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion for explaining Kotlin converts types in calculation. 

````suggestion
The basic arithmetic operators are the same as in many languages.
When the numbers in the calculation are the same type, the result will also be the same type:

```kotlin
4 + 3       // => 7     Int + Int = Int
4 - 3       // => 1     Int - Int = Int
4L * 3L     // => 12    Long * Long = Long
6.0 / 2.0   // => 3.0   Double / Double = Double
```

If the numbers are different types, Kotlin will infer the result's type to mitigate data loss:

```kotlin
4 + 3.0         // => 7.0                   Int + Double = Double
10.5 - 3.125f   // => 7.375                 Double - Float = Double
7L * 1.125      // => 7.875                 Long * Double = Double
10L / 3.0       // => 3.3333333333333335    Long / Double = Double
```

This is particularly significant for division, as dividing an integer (for example an Int) by another integer (for example an Int) will give an integer (in this case an Int):

```kotlin
4 / 3   // => 1     Int / Int always gives an Int
-8 / 3  // => -2    Truncated towards zero
```

To keep the decimal part, convert one of the numbers to a Float or Double:

```kotlin
-8.0 / 3    // => -2.6666666666666665
-8 / 3.0    // => -2.6666666666666665
-8.0 / 3.0  // => -2.6666666666666665
```

````

> To get a floating point result, at least one of the numbers in the calculation must be floating point.
> This is particularly significant for division, as integer division often leads to truncation.
> 

Reviewer: ````suggestion
To get a floating point result, at least one of the numbers in the calculation must be floating point (ie. a Float or a Double).
This is particularly significant for division, as integer division often leads to truncation.

```kotlin
-8.0 / 3   // => -2.6666666666666665
-8 / 3.0   // => -2.6666666666666665
-8.0 / 3.0 // => -2.6666666666666665
```
````

Division by zero is more interesting.

> ```Kotlin
> 1 / 0 // => java.lang.ArithmeticException: / by zero
> 3.0 / 0.0 // => Infinity
> 0.0 / 0.0 // => NaN (Not a Number)
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```Kotlin
1 / 0     // => java.lang.ArithmeticException: / by zero
3.0 / 0.0 // => Infinity
0.0 / 0.0 // => NaN (Not a Number)
```
````

This may be easier to read.

You can also add the reason for this:

````suggestion
```Kotlin
1 / 0     // => java.lang.ArithmeticException: / by zero
3.0 / 0.0 // => Infinity
0.0 / 0.0 // => NaN (Not a Number)
```

That's because floating point operations follow the [IEEE-standard for Floating Point math](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IEEE_754).
````
